- [Instructor] Every journey must have a starting point.
Up until now, we have been loading the wagon, so to speak
for our proverbial wagon ride across the west.
Well, now it's time to take our first steps on our journey
by starting our project.
I want you to open a terminal window
and navigate to where you store your code.
I store my code in a directory called code
in my local route.
Again, I am doing this outside of the GOPATH.
You may find for your uses
that you want to do this in the GOPATH,
but that's your choice.
So in this directory,
I want you to create a directory called cninf
for cloud native infrastructure.
So within my home directory,
I've now created a directory for my code
and then in there, cninf
and that's going to be the directory for our actual work.
Now within here, I want you to execute a command
but before we hit enter, I'm going to talk about it.
So let's type it out first.
So kubebuilder init --domain
and I'm going to choose a domain that makes sense to me.
And now I'm going to specify my repo.
This repo is only a requirement
if you are working outside your GOPATH.
All right, so let's talk about this a little bit
before we hit enter.
So we're leveraging Kubebuilder.
Again, it's on your path as per the requirements
and we're going to call the init operation
to set up a new project.
Now within here, we will specify the domain
where our kinds and our APIs are going to live.
This domain should be personal to you or your company.
Now I'm using lil for LinkedIn Learning
and then my personal domain.
I'm going to encourage you to do something very similar
as part of this exercise.
Now again, because I'm working outside my GOPATH,
I need to specify the repo.
And this is the repo where my code itself
will ultimately live
and that's sort of go standard things.
I am storing this in a private GitHub repo
so I'm specifying that repo path to this operator code.
Now we can provide more options here
because we're going to need them later.
But instead, I want to build this step by step
so we're going to stick with just the bare minimum
and this is the bare minimum to generate a project.
So let's hit enter and go ahead and generate that project.
You're going to see a lot of things happening on your machine
so be patient and let it run.
Okay, so what just happened?
We're going to take a look at the skeleton here for a minute
but I want you to note that it downloaded
a whole bunch of code,
and you'll see, kind of in the top third of my screen,
that there's a go mod tidy.
So it's building a go mod for us
and it's getting all of the dependencies
that we are going to need to build this operator
in addition to setting up the structure of that operator.
Now, we can't really do anything yet
and you see here the last line,
it tells us, build a resource, right?
Define an API.
We'll get to that but for now,
let's take a look at our actual code.
So I'm going to jump up a level here
and I'm going to open up my IDE.
We didn't really talk much about IDEs.
I use GoLand as my IDE.
I use IntelliJ tools every day in my work.
I feel more comfortable with them.
That's why I'm using them for this course.
These tools cost money, however.
You can do everything that I am doing in any IDE
because we're not going to be using any features of the IDE.
We're only using it to type code.
So if you're using Visual Studio Code or VI or any tool,
you will be fine using that.
So don't get hung up on the IDE aspect.
This is just what I am using for this course.
So let's go ahead and open up our cninf
and you'll see we got a whole bunch of code.
Let's take a look at what we've got.
So we've got a project
that defines our project, where it lives.
These are the things that we put in
when we built our operator through that init.
We got a main.go file
and we're going to talk a little bit about what's in here.
For now, just take a look through it,
read some of the methods.
You'll see what's going on with the actual main.go.
We also get a make file
and this make file, we're going to use many times
though we're not going to modify it.
So a lot of the actions that we do, utilize make.
We got a go mod and right now,
there's only three dependencies listed.
That's fine, we're going to add plenty more as we go.
We did get a Docker file
and when we talk about deploying our code,
we are going to leverage this Docker file.
Now, a couple things that I want you to notice.
In this Docker file,
it's setting up the architecture to be AMD 64,
because I'm running on an Intel-based Mac,
but I'm using a golang image that's similar to Alpine
so it's going to be a Linux image with AMD 64.
If you are deploying to an arm chip set,
you may need to change this go arch,
but that'll be down the road if you're dealing with that.
That could be a problem of running it.
Just pay attention as you go.
You get a couple ignore files,
you get some config with some default values,
and you also get this hack folder
that just has a boiler plate.
That's about all you get for free
but that's actually quite a bit
because we actually get a majority
of our scaffolding already,
with the exception of our CRDs and our APIs.
And that's for the next video.